docs/sphinx/ug_writing_scripts.rst, before:

---------------
Writing Scripts
---------------

Overview
========

Workflow deinitions are text files in `YAML <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YAML>`_
format, that are read, compiled, and executed by the *Task Runner*.

.. note::

    Unless you are a Python programmer, you may have to get used to the fact
    that **whitespace matters** in YAML files: |br|
    Make sure you indent uniformly. Don't mix tabs and spaces.
    We recommend to use an editor that supports the YAML syntax (e.g. VS Code).

A simple confuguration script may look like this: |br|
``yabs.yaml``:

.. literalinclude:: yabs_minimal.yaml
    :linenos:
    :language: yaml

See :doc:`ug_sample_yabs_yaml` for a complete configuration with all available
options and defaults.


Task Types
==========

.. todo::
  Documentation missing.

For now, look at :doc:`ug_sample_yabs_yaml` for a complete configuration file
with all available tasks.


.. _template-macros-label:

Template Macros
===============

Some tasks have string options such as tag names, commit messges, etc.
These strings may contain inline *macros* that will be expanded.

Typical macros are *version*, *tag_name*, *repo*, ... |br|
Macro names must be embedded in curly braces, for example:

.. code-block:: yaml

    - task: github_release
      name: 'v{version}'
      message: |
        Released {version}
        [Commit details](https://github.com/{repo}/compare/{org_tag_name}...{tag_name}).

All attributes of the task context are available as macros:

{inc}
    Value of the ``--inc`` argument.
{org_tag_name}
    The repo's latest tag name (before 'bump').
{org_version}
    Latest version (before 'bump').
{repo}
    GitHub repo name, e.g. 'USER/PROJECT'.
{tag_name}
    The current tag name (after 'bump').
{version}
    Current version (after 'bump').

See :class:`~yabs.cmd_common.TaskContext` for a complete list.


 .. _version-locations-label:

Version Locations
=================

.. note::
  Currently only a small subset is implemented. |br|
  Please `open an issue <https://github.com/mar10/yabs/issues>`_ if you need
  another one and are ready to help with testing.

(**TODO:** verify this section.)

Although there seems to be consent that Python projects should have a version
number that is stored at *one* central location, the community has not agreed
upon that location yet.

In order to find and bump this versions, we need to pass a hint in
the configuration `yabs.yaml` like so:

.. code-block:: yaml

    file_version: yabs#1
    config:
      ...
      version:
        - type: __version__  # Example!
          file: src/my_project/__init__.py
    ...

Yabs supports some common approaches. |br|
Following some typical patterns how Python projects store version numbers.

.. note::
  Currently we would recommend this variant (unless Poetry is used): |br|
  Store the version in ``__init__.py`` of the project's root folder::

      <__version__ = "1.2.3"

  Then reference this in ``setup.cfg``::

      [metadata]
      name = my_package
      version = attr: my_project.__version__

  This would then configured in ``yabs.yaml`` like so::

      config:
        version:
          - type: __version__
            file: my_project/__init__.py


See below for details about the different use cases.

Poetry
------

.. todo::
  Not yet implemented.

`Poetry <https://python-poetry.org/docs/pyproject/#version>`_ stores the version
number in its own section in ``pyproject.toml``
(defined in `PEP-518 <https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0518/>`_):

``pyproject.toml``:

.. code-block:: toml

    [project]
    ...
    [tool.poetry]
    name = "my_project"
    version =  "1.2.3"

``yabs.yaml``:

.. code-block:: yaml

    config:
      version:
        - type: poetry


flit
----

.. todo::
  Not yet implemented.


__init__.py of the project's root package
-----------------------------------------

``__init__.py``::

    __version__ = "1.2.3"

``yabs.yaml``:

.. code-block:: yaml

    config:
      version:
        - type: __version__
          file: src/my_project/__init__.py

Or a variant the mimics Python's `sys.version_info` style:

``__init__.py``::

    version_info = (1, 2, 3)
    version = ".".join(str(c) for c in version_info)

``yabs.yaml``:

.. code-block:: yaml

    config:
      version:
        # TODO

Plain Text File
---------------

For example a `_version.txt` file in the project's `src` folder containing:

``_version.txt``::

    1.2.3

``yabs.yaml``:

.. code-block:: yaml

    config:
      version:
        # TODO


setup.cfg
---------

See also `PEP-396 <https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0396/#distutils2>`_
and `setuptools <https://setuptools.readthedocs.io/en/latest/setuptools.html#id47>`_ .

``setup.cfg`` in the project's root folder:

.. code-block:: ini

    [metadata]
    name = my_package
    version = 1.2.3

``yabs.yaml``:

.. code-block:: yaml

    config:
      version:
        # TODO

The follwing two examples for setup.cfg use the special ``attr:`` and ``file:``
directives that where introduced with
`setuptools v39.2 <https://setuptools.readthedocs.io/en/latest/setuptools.html#metadata>`_ ).

**Note:** This assumes that the version is stored in a separate text- or Python file,
which is covered in the examples above.

.. code-block:: ini

    [metadata]
    name = my_package
    version = attr: my_project.__version__

.. code-block:: ini

    [metadata]
    name = my_package
    version = file: path/to/file

The follwing two examples for setup.cfg use the special ``version-file`` and
``version-from-file`` options that where proposed for
`distutils2 <https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0396/#distutils2>`_.

**Note:** This assumes that the version is stored in a separate text- or Python file,
which is covered in the examples above.

.. code-block:: ini

    [metadata]
    # The entire contents of the file contains the version number
    version-file = version.txt

.. code-block:: ini

    [metadata]
    # The version number is contained within a larger file, e.g. of Python code,
    # such that the file must be parsed to extract the version
    version-from-file = elle.py


Debugging
=========

Use the ``--verbose`` (short ``-v``) option to generate more console logging. |br|
Use the ``--dry-run`` (short ``-n``) option to run all tasks in a simulation mode::

    $ yabs run --inc patch -vn

Commit message:

Add link to tas reference

docs/sphinx/ug_writing_scripts.rst, after:

---------------
Writing Scripts
---------------

Overview
========

Workflow deinitions are text files in `YAML <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YAML>`_
format, that are read, compiled, and executed by the *Task Runner*.

.. note::

    Unless you are a Python programmer, you may have to get used to the fact
    that **whitespace matters** in YAML files: |br|
    Make sure you indent uniformly. Don't mix tabs and spaces.
    We recommend to use an editor that supports the YAML syntax (e.g. VS Code).

A simple confuguration script may look like this: |br|
``yabs.yaml``:

.. literalinclude:: yabs_minimal.yaml
    :linenos:
    :language: yaml

See :doc:`ug_sample_yabs_yaml` for a complete configuration with all available
options and defaults.


Task Types
==========

.. seealso::
   See :doc:`ug_reference` for a list of all tasks and options |br|
   and :doc:`ug_sample_yabs_yaml` for a complete configuration file
   with all available tasks.


.. _template-macros-label:

Template Macros
===============

Some tasks have string options such as tag names, commit messges, etc.
These strings may contain inline *macros* that will be expanded.

Typical macros are *version*, *tag_name*, *repo*, ... |br|
Macro names must be embedded in curly braces, for example:

.. code-block:: yaml

    - task: github_release
      name: 'v{version}'
      message: |
        Released {version}
        [Commit details](https://github.com/{repo}/compare/{org_tag_name}...{tag_name}).

All attributes of the task context are available as macros:

{inc}
    Value of the ``--inc`` argument.
{org_tag_name}
    The repo's latest tag name (before 'bump').
{org_version}
    Latest version (before 'bump').
{repo}
    GitHub repo name, e.g. 'USER/PROJECT'.
{tag_name}
    The current tag name (after 'bump').
{version}
    Current version (after 'bump').

See :class:`~yabs.cmd_common.TaskContext` for a complete list.


 .. _version-locations-label:

Version Locations
=================

.. note::
  Currently only a small subset is implemented. |br|
  Please `open an issue <https://github.com/mar10/yabs/issues>`_ if you need
  another one and are ready to help with testing.

(**TODO:** verify this section.)

Although there seems to be consent that Python projects should have a version
number that is stored at *one* central location, the community has not agreed
upon that location yet.

In order to find and bump this versions, we need to pass a hint in
the configuration `yabs.yaml` like so:

.. code-block:: yaml

    file_version: yabs#1
    config:
      ...
      version:
        - type: __version__  # Example!
          file: src/my_project/__init__.py
    ...

Yabs supports some common approaches. |br|
Following some typical patterns how Python projects store version numbers.

.. note::
  Currently we would recommend this variant (unless Poetry is used): |br|
  Store the version in ``__init__.py`` of the project's root folder::

      <__version__ = "1.2.3"

  Then reference this in ``setup.cfg``::

      [metadata]
      name = my_package
      version = attr: my_project.__version__

  This would then configured in ``yabs.yaml`` like so::

      config:
        version:
          - type: __version__
            file: my_project/__init__.py


See below for details about the different use cases.

Poetry
------

.. todo::
  Not yet implemented.

`Poetry <https://python-poetry.org/docs/pyproject/#version>`_ stores the version
number in its own section in ``pyproject.toml``
(defined in `PEP-518 <https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0518/>`_):

``pyproject.toml``:

.. code-block:: toml

    [project]
    ...
    [tool.poetry]
    name = "my_project"
    version =  "1.2.3"

``yabs.yaml``:

.. code-block:: yaml

    config:
      version:
        - type: poetry


flit
----

.. todo::
  Not yet implemented.


__init__.py of the project's root package
-----------------------------------------

``__init__.py``::

    __version__ = "1.2.3"

``yabs.yaml``:

.. code-block:: yaml

    config:
      version:
        - type: __version__
          file: src/my_project/__init__.py

Or a variant the mimics Python's `sys.version_info` style:

``__init__.py``::

    version_info = (1, 2, 3)
    version = ".".join(str(c) for c in version_info)

``yabs.yaml``:

.. code-block:: yaml

    config:
      version:
        # TODO

Plain Text File
---------------

For example a `_version.txt` file in the project's `src` folder containing:

``_version.txt``::

    1.2.3

``yabs.yaml``:

.. code-block:: yaml

    config:
      version:
        # TODO


setup.cfg
---------

See also `PEP-396 <https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0396/#distutils2>`_
and `setuptools <https://setuptools.readthedocs.io/en/latest/setuptools.html#id47>`_ .

``setup.cfg`` in the project's root folder:

.. code-block:: ini

    [metadata]
    name = my_package
    version = 1.2.3

``yabs.yaml``:

.. code-block:: yaml

    config:
      version:
        # TODO

The follwing two examples for setup.cfg use the special ``attr:`` and ``file:``
directives that where introduced with
`setuptools v39.2 <https://setuptools.readthedocs.io/en/latest/setuptools.html#metadata>`_ ).

**Note:** This assumes that the version is stored in a separate text- or Python file,
which is covered in the examples above.

.. code-block:: ini

    [metadata]
    name = my_package
    version = attr: my_project.__version__

.. code-block:: ini

    [metadata]
    name = my_package
    version = file: path/to/file

The follwing two examples for setup.cfg use the special ``version-file`` and
``version-from-file`` options that where proposed for
`distutils2 <https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0396/#distutils2>`_.

**Note:** This assumes that the version is stored in a separate text- or Python file,
which is covered in the examples above.

.. code-block:: ini

    [metadata]
    # The entire contents of the file contains the version number
    version-file = version.txt

.. code-block:: ini

    [metadata]
    # The version number is contained within a larger file, e.g. of Python code,
    # such that the file must be parsed to extract the version
    version-from-file = elle.py


Debugging
=========

Use the ``--verbose`` (short ``-v``) option to generate more console logging. |br|
Use the ``--dry-run`` (short ``-n``) option to run all tasks in a simulation mode::

    $ yabs run --inc patch -vn
