docs/sphinx/ug_writing_plugins.rst, before:

---------------
Writing Plugins
---------------

.. warning::

    The plugin API is still preliminary: expect changeges!

Additional task types can be added to *Yabs* by the way of *plugins*.

For example let's assume we need a new task `cowsay` that is used like so:

.. code-block:: yaml

    - task: cowsay
      message: |
        Dear fellow cattle,
        We just released version {version}.
        (This message was brought to you by the 'yabs-cowsay' extension.)

and produces this output:

.. code-block:: bash

     _________________________________________
    / Dear fellow cattle,                     \
    | We just released version 0.0.19-a2.     |
    | (This message was brought to you by the |
    \ 'yabs-cowsay' extension.)               /
     -----------------------------------------
        \   ^__^
         \  (oo)\_______
            (__)\       )\/\
                ||----w |
                ||     ||


See the `sample implementation <https://github.com/mar10/yabs-cowsay>`_
for details.

.. note::

    Please let's reserve the namespace ``yabs-TASKNAME`` for 'official'
    extensions. |br|
    If you publish your own custom extension on PyPI, choose a name like
    ``yabs-USER-TASKNAME`` or similar.

    Also add 'yabs-plugin' to the keywords and ``Framework :: Yabs`` to the
    classifiers.

Commit message:

Plugins can modify command line

docs/sphinx/ug_writing_plugins.rst, after:

---------------
Writing Plugins
---------------

.. warning::

    The plugin API is still preliminary: expect changes!

Additional task types can be added to *Yabs* by the way of *plugins*.

For example let's assume we need a new task `cowsay` that is used like so:

.. code-block:: yaml

    - task: cowsay
      message: |
        Dear fellow cattle,
        We just released version {version}.
        (This message was brought to you by the 'yabs-cowsay' extension.)

and produces this output:

.. code-block:: bash

     _________________________________________
    / Dear fellow cattle,                     \
    | We just released version 0.0.19-a2.     |
    | (This message was brought to you by the |
    \ 'yabs-cowsay' extension.)               /
     -----------------------------------------
        \   ^__^
         \  (oo)\_______
            (__)\       )\/\
                ||----w |
                ||     ||


This can be implemented by a separate installable Python module, that
exposes a special entry point:

.. code-block:: ini

    [options.entry_points]
    # Plugins are found by the 'yabs.tasks' namespace.
    # The 'register()' function is then called by the plugin loader.
    # The 'cowsay' name is used as yabs task type name-
    yabs.tasks =
        cowsay = yabs_cowsay:register

See the `sample implementation <https://github.com/mar10/yabs-cowsay>`_
for implemntation details and the
`sample project <https://github.com/mar10/test-release-tool/blob/master/yabs.yaml>`_
for a usage example.

.. note::

    Please let's reserve the namespace ``yabs-TASKNAME`` for 'official'
    extensions. |br|
    If you publish your own custom extension on PyPI, choose a name like
    ``yabs-USER-TASKNAME`` or similar.

    Also add 'yabs-plugin' to the keywords and ``Framework :: Yabs`` to the
    classifiers, to make it more discoverable.
